Exercises


1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

-Making coffee;
-Washing dishes;
- A choice of your own.


A. 
Making Coffee

FUNCTION makingCoffeeKeurig()
      GET Coffee Pod and water
      PUT Coffee Pod and water in Keurig 
      IF Keurig Machine light is green
        PRESS on button and place a mug on the machine
      END IF
      FOR EACH cup finished brewing 
        REMOVE cup from machine
        PUT 1 teaspoon of sugar
       END FOR      
     END FUNCTION


Doing Dishes 
  FUNCTION washingDishes()
                TURN water ON
                GRAB soap and sponge
                POUR soap on sponge
                WHILE there is dirty dishes
                    SCRUB dishes
                    RINSE dishes
                    PLACE clean dishes on drying rack
                END WHILE
                RINSE HANDS
                TURN water OFF
        END FUNCTION


Painting Nails
FUNCTION paintingNails()
    GET nail polish and nail polish remover
    IF nails has old polish
         Remove polish with remover
    END IF 
    FOR EACH nail 
        use 2 coats of paint
    END FOR 
    WHILE polish is not dry
       wait 1 minute
    END WHILE
  END FUNCTION


2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for 
a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to 
be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines;
 what about each of your cases make them stand out?


A.
Uber’s Algorithm: The surge algorithm at Uber aims to balance the supply and demand in certain regions at certain peak usage times. The 
surge price acts as an additional motivator for drivers during rush times.

-Facebook’s Algorithm: The news feed algorithm prioritizing ‘meaningful interactions’ it’s based on comments, reactions, comment replies, 
sharing links over Messenger and engagement on shares. This algorithm stands out because it intends to elicit ‘active interactions ‘ instead 
of just having user passively scroll through the news feed.

Spotify’s Algorithm: It’s algorithm offer music suggestions based on several factors such as previously downloaded songs and most listened
 songs for each user. This algorithm allows users to use Spotify to discover new music and bands based on their current interests and 
listening habits. 


3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

A. The analysis of an algorithm to determinate efficiency is based on time( how long does the algorithm take to complete) and space( how 
much memory does the algorithm use). This analysis can be done using the Big O notation. Efficient algorithms are also easy to understand 
and not redundant.

